Bob,

I am putting together a session at the Interface Conference on

   Accessible Interfaces to Advanced Statistics Software

I am inviting you to prepare a talk along the lines of the title I
have suggested below.  Can you do that?

Rich


Sophisticated programs for statistical analysis can be very complex.
Good collaboration with scientists requires a software interface
between the working styles of the data collector and interpretor and
the analysis software.  Excel is an ubiquitous spreadsheet often used
for data collection, manipulation, and storage.  References to
arbitrarily large and complex items can be stored in the spreadsheet
cells.


1. An Office-Software- and Menu-Driven Interface to Advanced Statistics in
   Biological Sciences
Erich Neuwirth, University of Vienna
 and 
Thomas Baier, Technical University of Vienna

In this session we describe and illustrate a menu system integrated
into the Excel menu bar that gives complete access to the full power
of R.  R is an integrated suite of software facilities for data
manipulation, calculation, statistical analysis, and graphical
display.  The R command language can be daunting for an occasional
user who needs access to the computational power of the language.
This session includes discussions of a newly created system that
allows substantial access to R via a clickable menu residing on the
spreadsheet bar of Microsoft Excel.  Results from the analyses can be
returned to the spreadsheet.  The presentations discuss the
development, implementation and applications of this new technology.


2. Applications of R controlled through the Excel interface:
   Distribution of Microarray Analysis Results.
Narasimhan Balasubramanian
Stanford University


3. Distribution using Excel of Gene analysis graphics drawn in S-Plus
   from data and analyses in SAS.
Bob Gagnon, GSK



The 39th Conference on Interface of Statistics and Computing Science
will take place
	May 23-26, Philadelphia, Doubletree Hotel
The general theme is "Systems Biology".

For more information, see the conference website
	http://sbm.temple.edu/interface07/
or contact Alan J. Izenman, Department of Statistics, Speakman
Hall, 1810 North 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083, 
(215) 204-8166, alan@temple.edu.
